GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Hello everybody.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: I hope you can hear me.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Yes, yes okay wonderful grace just always a little bit afraid of Internet connection, especially when it's raining but today it's sunny here so everything should go sugar find so what come to this.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: conference had today dude and the law states Friday it's very promising it's a nice.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Nice truck.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: So I don't want to waste too much time.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: In in in talking myself, I prefer just to briefly introduce you interview and and hopefully have a nice debate it's very, very, very, very promising and the festival land with bank Sullivan and Scott for this wonderful Conference, because I.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: hadn't had the possibility, yet to do it, so let me do it so.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: The first speaker today i'm sorry already because i'm pretty sure that I will pronounce it badly.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: bash let's let's see Michael don't omit higher maybe it's mikael isn't me crazy right right this tendency to think that everything must be in English, no it's me hello, SHERLOCK or something like this.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Or you pronounce your name yourself, because I know that my pronunciation is horrible with a very interesting.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: topic on the paradox of electronic literature on might interested in that in classroom investigating the challenges for new literacy practices within the platform school so me just.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: To you, on.
Michael Schlauch: And thank you savannah and I just link my paper in the set so everybody can.
Michael Schlauch: see it again.
Michael Schlauch: Okay, and yeah I try to keep myself in the five limit minutes limit i'm Michelangelo and i'm based in the University of Oregon and Italy at the border, or to Austria, and so my interest is in education and educational media and my starting question.
Michael Schlauch: Thinking about this paper was.
Michael Schlauch: Why hasn't electronic literature and the schools, yet or limit in a limited amount, and as we are speaking, as we are thinking and computers have certainly ended schools and and certainly within this this pandemic times.
Michael Schlauch: So there is some kind of paradox to disentangle here and my departure was to think about what are the educational types of media that are used many scholars.
Michael Schlauch: criticize or describe the situation that there are electronic books and text books, but they are mostly legacy media that are digitalized and they don't.
and
Michael Schlauch: reflect the notion of digital bond literature so so they don't coincide with the.
Michael Schlauch: border.
Michael Schlauch: Shared notion of electronic literature as something born digitally and.
Michael Schlauch: containing some some kinds of audiences that are specific to electronic literature So then, and the whole question becomes okay Ben Ben the school right now is some kind of platform that.
Michael Schlauch: facilitates conventional forms of educational media like textbooks what is happening right now but kinds of platform mutations are happening right now and what can be changed in order to facilitate a new forms of electronic literature in schools.
Michael Schlauch: So if you talk about platforms, my second point in the paper is and that there is much confusion about the concept of platform, so what what is the platform.
Michael Schlauch: And we are talking about different educational platforms learning management systems and so on, and actually we have different definitions.
Michael Schlauch: And, for example, the early and paper by Ian bogus and the comfort and describes.
Michael Schlauch: Within platform studies, a platform as a system that can be reprogrammed and therefore customized by outside developers users and in a way, adapted to countless needs and niches that the platforms original developers could not have possibly contemplated.
Michael Schlauch: Then there's another perspective, which is more the educational psychology side of.
Michael Schlauch: The debate which defines a platform as a for women programmable digital architecture design to organize interactions between users.
Michael Schlauch: Not just end users but also corporate entities public bodies, it is geared to what the systematic collection, I will make processing circulation at monetization of user data.
Michael Schlauch: So there's the other aspect that which, which is addressed here which goes more in the direction of what is done within these platforms and what what what is done with platforms that maybe isn't contemplated beforehand.
Michael Schlauch: So.
Michael Schlauch: If you look at the the issue right now is that many tech firms are.
Michael Schlauch: In nevertheless and structured in a way, they follow a model of conventional schooling, so they.
Michael Schlauch: As a lot of, for example, obsessed with reference to Google classroom the title tested mechanisms and structures of formal schooling.
Michael Schlauch: Like classrooms coursework students submissions and so on abstracted into a predefined templates for participation So what can we do in our electronic literate society to.
Michael Schlauch: change things, I think that different issues that have to be addressed, and the first issue is.
Michael Schlauch: The issue of disruptive fixations so a lot of earlier work on electronic literature.
Michael Schlauch: was very visionary.
Michael Schlauch: Also.
Michael Schlauch: also criticized tokenism, for example, work, but by by.
Michael Schlauch: Many earlier works on the on the hyper text and time and then.
Michael Schlauch: The problem becomes when there's some kind of.
Michael Schlauch: disrupt the fixation like right like crystal sims describes weather is.
Michael Schlauch: problematic ization rendering technical and experts and Alice imagine every present figured words that are particularly amenable to incontrovertible with envisioned rabbit remedy, so if the fema envision avert which is.
Michael Schlauch: To which electronic literature is the only solution we fall in the trap of of technological solution ISM and simplification like simplified business of the digital native, for example.
Michael Schlauch: The second issue is about literacy there's much to say about literacy and because the concept of reading I think later on in the span of we will.
Michael Schlauch: Talk about it more is very confusing, because we can also refer to the consumption of digital artifacts as interacting or playing So what is the reading part of it, and where does literacy begin and end and.
Michael Schlauch: The whole concept of literacy has to be we we considered, especially in schools and and right now the tendency is to go backwards to to basic reading and writing because it's the most clearest type of conceding in the pressing.
Michael Schlauch: And then the third issue is teaching, so all the teachers.
Michael Schlauch: A lot of.
Michael Schlauch: Electronic literature.
Michael Schlauch: happens outside of schools and.
Michael Schlauch: The problem with platforms and digital platforms is that.
Michael Schlauch: Teaching often is reduced to the advancement of contingencies of be enforcement and which, under which students learn, so we.
Michael Schlauch: Forget the educational part of teaching and only concentrate on learning and what happens is that the agency of teachers and students and gets missed and and the vision of.
Michael Schlauch: I portray in my papers in teachers becoming more like cyber bart's and says, instead of being standardized with.
Michael Schlauch: Learning management systems, for example.
Michael Schlauch: So yeah, this is the, these are the issues I bring forward in my paper and maybe we can talk about it more than yeah Thank you.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Thank you very much.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: very, very interesting.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: topic.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: I think that, yes, we can we can absolutely discussing this later.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: I think dash now should be.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: And not yet prevent bar and i'm a right.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: But I cannot see her right.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Well, well then, I don't know so me, I think we we we.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: We go for you and and that's it so me Spencer we'll just start now amplified publishing finding audiences.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: i'm very into this founding audiences because well it's also linked already to water Mihail said because it's it elite, I think, just been for too long in a niche so this funding audiences is very promising, which is like i'm silence and we'll discuss later Thank you me.
Amy Spencer: Great and I wanted to share some slides do I have the.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: should be able.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: To now show me, I think I probably can.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Yes.
Amy Spencer: Can you see that.
Amy Spencer: Just.
Amy Spencer: Can you just see the first slide.
Amy Spencer: The first slide Okay, and so my name's amy Spencer I a postdoctoral research at Boston University, which is.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: In the UK in the southwest of the UK.
Amy Spencer: And I am just going to run through some of the key points of my paper which I realized wasn't linked but i'm just going to.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: me sorry to interrupt you to know how you want to to to to present this, this is not if I I see all the papers, not just the first line, so I don't know.
Amy Spencer: Okay, let me see what i've done.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Okay now it's perfect.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Okay, thanks okay I can't see my notes, at the same time, which is nothing but anyway i'll be fine and.
Amy Spencer: So i'm fine publishing sharing audiences, so the upside publishing project is.
Amy Spencer: it's a large scale project as part of the Bristol a bath creative R amp D project, which is a sort of practice based practice lead approach to research, where we.
Amy Spencer: provide funding and Commission producers writers theatre makers.
Amy Spencer: All kinds of creative technologists people who are working in the creative technology sector to develop projects and and explore research so.
Amy Spencer: it's a big project and actually publishing is one strand of it and that's the standard i'm involved with.
Amy Spencer: we're thinking about publishing and it's broader sense, so not just you know traditional book publishing print publishing thinking about all forms of content sharing content across different platforms so that's why I was particularly interested in this yellow strand theme this year.
Amy Spencer: So it's looking at lots of different questions and my role within the project is to explore these different avenues so thinking about what publishing means in the 21st century, you know it's not just printing anymore it's.
Amy Spencer: You know, it might include publishing on YouTube might include tick tock might include you know all these different platforms that are available and.
Amy Spencer: Thinking about how you might expand traditional media through synchronization.
Amy Spencer: That you can move through different platforms you don't need to kind of stay on one platform and consume everything you can kind of move between platforms and get different bits of content and thinking about personalization so how how you interact with the platform.
Amy Spencer: How it sort of taylor's content to who you are and what you're what you're interested in thinking about the rise of visual storytelling so not necessarily focused on the printed word, for example.
Amy Spencer: Thinking about a range of more visual platforms and how how that might influence the future of reading.
Amy Spencer: And thinking about who our audiences are, this is the crucial question that i'm focused on in my research in the moment who the audience is what do they want.
Amy Spencer: Where do we find them, so this is something that you know so many different people who are working in publishing and thinking about publishing and it's broader sense, where the audience is what does that mean.
Amy Spencer: So that's what i'm currently exploring and thinking about narrative based digital publishing because that's my background, so my background is.
Amy Spencer: Specifically around kind of experimental fiction and how you can explore kind of narrative based fiction, but using technology.
Amy Spencer: So how can narrative based digital publishing reach an active and engaged does it say engaged and active and engaged audience across platforms so.
Amy Spencer: Looking for an audience, not just a passive audience, but it kind of active receptive responsive audience.
Amy Spencer: So these are the questions that i've been exploring in my paper, so how can we read his experiences be guided and mediated and kind of can't just throw a new form at a reader that needs to be some kind of sense of.
Amy Spencer: supporting them in some way to understand what the format is that can be done in lots of different ways.
Amy Spencer: And how can an algorithm algorithms be used to find a new and relevant content we've identified that's a crucial area that algorithms are very important and kind of searching and finding.
Amy Spencer: finding work, how can personalization help readers find what they're looking for so again quite crucial and something that's.
Amy Spencer: As we've talked to publishers through our project that comes up again and again, and how can platforms be developed in frame So how can people not only navigate different platforms, but how can they sort of respond to readers and readers understand.
Amy Spencer: Why can't I mean.
Amy Spencer: So yeah so we're doing this as part of the flight publishing project, and one of the ways that we've done this is where commissioning.
Amy Spencer: 15 I think the moment and research fellows and industry partners and so we've got a range of different people we've got, for example, children's author who's really interested in developing audio stories, but for children that are very inclusive.
Amy Spencer: we've got publishers who are interested in finding new readers and trying to work out.
Amy Spencer: How to position themselves in the digital.
Amy Spencer: we've got theatre makers trying to understand how story and narrative are being developed in that field so we've got lots of different people all over the different research question.
Amy Spencer: And my role is to kind of bought the support that research as it develops and engage with my own research in that area, so i'm particularly thinking about narrative based publishing and thinking about this reaching audiences.
Amy Spencer: And my experience in this is influenced quite heavily by my involvement in the ambient literature project, which was a two year project, where I was a postdoc.
Amy Spencer: And i've just put a little definition of what ambient literature is so situated literary experiences delivered by pervasive computing platforms responding to the presence of reader to deliver story so that.
Amy Spencer: was again, a practice lead project, where we commissioned writers, to develop works and we asked them to develop works that use smartphone technology so they sort of experimented and played with different sensors in the phone, for example, GPS, but also.
Amy Spencer: Other so your phone Nicola knows where you are but also knows what time of day, it is what the weather's like all the different kind of data that it collects about you as you're moving through the world, and this project.
Amy Spencer: We encourage writers and readers to experiment with that and those kinds of technologies and develop really sort of immersive stories that you engage with through your phone so might get my.
Amy Spencer: starting point for airplay publishing project just thinking about this, and some of the things I learned, as I was going through this project, and so I just put a few finding So these are my initial kind of areas that i've started to explore, so the amplified publishing project is is.
Amy Spencer: There and started a while ago it's it's it's new it's kind of in its beginning phases of the moment we're engaging with people were beginning to research we're talking with people it's it's a kind of a new thing.
Amy Spencer: And, but my initial areas that i've i've been kind of going to look into in a bit more depth which i've been outlining so writers need to find a way to guide their readers and this was something that we found in the applied publishing project.
Amy Spencer: As are in the ambient ledger project they've got similar names I keep muddling them up and in the ambien ledger project was writers need to support readers.
Amy Spencer: Particularly the beginning stages of the story kind of setting out what the mechanisms are you know how how you're going to do that, to prevent readers just getting very confused.
Amy Spencer: So that helps kind of reaching audiences through making things clear and understandable and avoiding.
Amy Spencer: kind of Illinois projects becoming quite niche and only appealing to a small audience, making it understandable.
Amy Spencer: That needs to be a connection to existing platforms that's something that we've been exploring and thinking about that.
Amy Spencer: This ties into discover ability, people need to kind of understand where to find works access needs and inclusion need to be taken into account that was something that we learned, particularly through ambien literature project.
Amy Spencer: You know, not everybody accesses works in the same way, so you need to be responsive and.
Amy Spencer: able to support various needs and also works might not be for everyone so that's something that comes up when you're looking for new audiences for work, and you know it might not be that the work is you know widely appeals to everybody, it might be a kind of a niche.
Amy Spencer: A nice work and yeah thinking about what that means in terms of finding readers and finding audiences.
Amy Spencer: Okay, as a.
Amy Spencer: Quick fire.
Amy Spencer: approach to what i've been working on i'm going to share my screen.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Okay, thank you now, you can hear me sorry ah.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: very, very, very interesting.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: So, since.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: I think it will have time for discussion very happy about that because normally at the end lovely papers that we cannot discuss.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Together, because so from lack of time, that your stay strictly to your timing so it's perfect so now.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: it's not very interesting.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: interesting.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: panel the sorry.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: topic, but I cannot see a I forgot my glasses sorry in class, so I have some trouble, so the name of your can see it, or they have some troubles.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: He gonna crush it and sat with Russell.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: I did there no.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Oh, we haven't been been.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: They haven't told us anything, so we lost to truck so we have plenty of time to discuss that right.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Oh that's that's bad.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: yeah it's not that they have some problem connecting I don't know.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Probably not so.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: it's just us well, well then, we have lots of time to talk about your your your your both your view, so if you want to add anything Mihail and also me.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: To better explain, because you were very strict, to the point, but since we have more time I think it's fair enough to give you.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Were back so you can explain a little bit more, because in fact is the connection between the two, the two you're looking for audiences.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: And Mihail is looking for for for materials like Sally this it's interesting if you might add something we fail because you had a paper but.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: You were very, very rigorous and me YouTube so you might talk for another five minutes, maybe an me YouTube and then we started discussion a couple of questions i'm probably also other other.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: vendors have some some question, and particularly interesting in that especially here in Italy, since you are the border, but the University of both still is still on this side, although I do like borders because of my own own own history of travel around Europe.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: And then particular interesting also interested in also to see if you know about any differences between.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Between.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: What is going on in the let's call German side of Italy and the rest of Italy, if you have any.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Any detail that you can share with us, if you are aware that you're interested in data and silent, otherwise it's me speaking all the time.
Michael Schlauch: yeah.
Michael Schlauch: yeah I can I can start maybe.
Michael Schlauch: yeah the I think the thing is in Germany and in Austria, and also in Italy.
Michael Schlauch: We have this more or less the same situation of.
Michael Schlauch: Educational media being more oriented at the conventional types of media so so.
Michael Schlauch: What what is happening right now is that because of the pandemic and home homeschooling and so on.
Michael Schlauch: they're much more platforms and during the schools, so what but hasn't been conceivable maybe three years ago and doing a Google classroom entering a primary school, I have two kids in primary school so so I see it also as a parent and what you can see is that.
Michael Schlauch: platforms are entering the primary schools and and maybe in Germany there's more skepticism about.
Michael Schlauch: proprietary platforms or platforms that don't respect this privacy and they're more and more concerns, it will be a little bit more concerns but.
Michael Schlauch: The overall picture I think is more or less the same and what what what appeared to me, listening to to me.
Michael Schlauch: was how how maybe the the distinction between authorship and audience is put into question by by electronic literature, because, especially if you.
Michael Schlauch: See works like ambient literature or augmented reality games or labs and so on, and there is not only the author and the consumer but.
Michael Schlauch: there's also a middle part in on it, and this is the interesting part for me, because if you talk about children's literature, for example, there's always the parent who reads to the kid and with educational media in schools there's always the teacher who facilitates.
Michael Schlauch: elaborates the material, so how can the role of the teacher be be adapted in the future, maybe with works that are more experimental a more embodied also more.
Michael Schlauch: More multimodal So the question becomes then Okay, because what what is the distinction between the author and and how much authorship is given to these middle worlds in betweens to the teachers and and so on yeah.
Maybe this this can be one question.
Amy Spencer: yeah I think I found that really interesting thinking about it was something that came up over and over again through.
Michael Schlauch: And the ambulance to predict.
Amy Spencer: You know, is someone reader is someone a you know, a Co writer kind of what is the position of the reader within a work like that, so when you said that that kind of.
Amy Spencer: engaged with a lot of the thinking i've been doing, whether yeah the position who's the writer who's the reader who's the.
Amy Spencer: yeah in in kind of interactive works, where you're.
Amy Spencer: you're you're not kind of a passive type of reader.
Amy Spencer: yeah all those boundaries kind of blow a bit, and I think they're really, really crucial to understanding these kind of works, a lot of.
Amy Spencer: The time, particularly in that.
Amy Spencer: and be and be encouraged to project where your Presidents was really important you needed to be part of the story, you needed in some of the the works that we commissioned needed to be walking a particular route in order to.
Amy Spencer: engage with the story, so you were you were you were crucial crucial part of the story.
Amy Spencer: and
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: sort of questions, so I don't know if you want to add anything me I don't know if i'm directing you or when.
Amy Spencer: I was, I was kind of reading them, as I was talking about Joseph.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: So three questions, I think, very interesting.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: So.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: The first one is by Hannah documents and then, so thank you very much for your presentation your projects are of course very focused on.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: elite in different contexts, which are kind of interesting and, by the way, do you have any advice for other researchers in elite on how to incorporate different context behind academia and the elite community.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: And this is why also.
Amy Spencer: With that a little bit different decks that i've been working on engage with publishing quite heavily so kind of moving beyond.
Amy Spencer: A lot of projects are sort of focused on industry, and I think there's a bit of a move within the universities in in the UK to be working in partnership with with different industries and i'm do quite a lot of work around.
Amy Spencer: Working with publishers and and sort of technology companies and which, I think, for me, is a really nice way of working.
Amy Spencer: In academia and working on projects that I find interesting in a kind of academic sense but also getting to work with people developing those in a practical sense as well, so.
Amy Spencer: I do a lot of work with.
Amy Spencer: yeah practitioners it's a sort of practitioner focused way of working, where you're reaching out of academia and.
Amy Spencer: you're thinking about developing and making works lots of researchers, that I work with have a kind of dual identity, they might be kind of theatre makers as well or writers or.
Amy Spencer: practitioners of different kinds of working on, you know augmented reality works or vr works or you know all different kinds of things so.
Amy Spencer: I think finding an area of research, where people are kind of making as well, for me, as a really crucial part of the research and it might be that you can find a similar kind of way of working, I don't know if it's specific to the UK or whether that's a way that that.
Amy Spencer: Research works in a kind of worldwide context but, for me, I found that that's a really.
Amy Spencer: interesting way, so the projects i've worked on we've commissioned work and then we've researched the work and which has been really.
Amy Spencer: really nice and it also involves working with different people who are interested in different things is the wave crucial to me, but I don't know that might not be a way that everybody.
Amy Spencer: Across universities works.
Amy Spencer: To be a niche thing.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: And me to do do do you have any idea, especially among us, because we are both from Italy and back to Italy, after so many years bros and they see that here in Italy there is this some kind of.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Wholesale resistance, but they are really old say afraid but itself is so different that probably data knew how to cope with this with deal with it and so.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: My personal experience inside the outside de de de de academy the academy and and I would like to go outside Academy, especially working with school high school banner just high school, but has also.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Elementary schools, and I can promote our school.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: I think that they when I talk with colleagues or anything they they look at me like this is kind of weird stuff, but I think that the problem is in teachers, so they do know how to approach it or i'm mistaken, something that you have a little more experienced Michelle what you think.
Michael Schlauch: yeah and.
Michael Schlauch: it's it's interesting problem because.
Michael Schlauch: The mentality is oriented or Dan not many examples of electronic literature for for children or published works that can be applied for for the pedagogical contexts and and.
Michael Schlauch: And also, the problem is maybe that there aren't any business models that are feasible or that that work in this publishing scheme which which.
Michael Schlauch: Is we've remained much.
Amy Spencer: proprietary so.
Michael Schlauch: So I think an interesting way.
Michael Schlauch: To promote things or go forward is to attach or connect to the open educational resources movements and.
Michael Schlauch: And, and to look at communities of practice that produce their own material on their own artifacts like like.
Michael Schlauch: For example, and progressive education movements and in France, for example, this the front, a movement and eBay and we're always thinking about self publishing and self making that the materials, another point.
Michael Schlauch: In Italy, is, I think the whole and Stephen literature and sector and because, if you think, for example, about sanibel Diary, it was a very famous student author, you need to leave my head is tender hundred year birthday last year, so it was really a big.
Michael Schlauch: topic here and the thing about Daniel data is that that many of these concepts and.
Michael Schlauch: How he describes, for example in the in his book The grammar of fantasy, many of these concepts and are like into in an intermediate.
Michael Schlauch: step towards electronic literature, because once one thing he said, is the best the best story is the story without the without an ending which can be.
Michael Schlauch: interactively extended by by the child in the room in the classroom or by the tablet so so there's always this creative component and then the student works, and I think if we can.
Michael Schlauch: For example, when I approach teachers primary teachers I normally go.
Michael Schlauch: Go by citing these kinds of books, because they are actually.
Michael Schlauch: works that.
Michael Schlauch: That have something in common with electronic literature yeah.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Sorry, I didn't want but Mike Mike.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Okay, so there is another question, you might have already.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: read it, I would love to hear you both speak a bit more about how elite might be used to encourage into personal understanding.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: and meaningful social connections, it seems like this is a key underlying point for bottle your papers and also this is more directly to me, but you probably already answered because I saw the you're chopping.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Also, I mean is your paper available anywhere, yes, she she sent a link, I think, if not Could you provide any relevant links to amplified publishing project this conversation seems to fit well into.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Our read that because I am afraid that I will won't be able to pre beats this could be that.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Know sure.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: paper on ambien to literature, which is currently being presented in another paper.
Amy Spencer: yeah Agnes good.
Amy Spencer: she's a colleague of mine working a boss, but she's.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: telling me how how her name should be pronounced.
Amy Spencer: I said well i'm Scott is her first name I have never said her surname.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Okay Scott.
Amy Spencer: that's okay I don't want to guess right now but um yeah she's working on and she's also part of the publishing project thinking about the art and literature so literary works.
Amy Spencer: that used to be our so yeah interesting researcher.
Amy Spencer: I included a link to the slide publishing project, and I can.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Okay perfect.
Amy Spencer: and going back to the question.
Amy Spencer: yeah i'm not sure if you answer discussion and the encouraging interpersonal understanding a meaningful social connections.
Amy Spencer: And it's tricky because I work with.
Amy Spencer: In the projects i've been working with we work with writers and technologists and they're all developing different projects and some of those are really crucially focused on social connection and particularly around.
Amy Spencer: lots of people that we've worked with thinking about kind of urban spaces and how you can build connection within within place.
Amy Spencer: As a particular research interest of mine, how you can you know make spaces that might have first feel quite anonymous.
Amy Spencer: build in sort of.
Amy Spencer: kind of meaningful social connection, one of the writers that we've worked with as part of the MBA and literature literature project Duncan speakman he produces audio works that are really.
Amy Spencer: Interesting in the way that they connect the person experiencing them to place so.
Amy Spencer: You can works with sort of ideas of serendipity and so you're walking through a city and you might be listening to headphones headphones and reading.
Amy Spencer: Some text at the same time and and the way that he sort of choreographs what you might see around you so he you know, is aware of the the common items in a city space and he sort of incorporate them in the story so as you're walking you get the sense of.
Amy Spencer: Somebody of later trail for you and that you.
Amy Spencer: get a sense that the story is get choreographed with the things that you see in front of you, so I really like works like that that.
Amy Spencer: You know, digital works that you know couldn't be couldn't exist without digital technologies but they give you that feeling of connection social connection and connection to place but through through digital lacks and yeah i'm into those kind of works.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Thank you know a few.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: We must have been a dark by this.
Amy Spencer: was trying to badly describe it was hard to describe it without describing huge amount of things, but yet so wonderful work that one.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Okay um I don't know Michael if you.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Go to you with an English name me hi, why do you want to add anything.
Michael Schlauch: yeah I can add maybe something very broad is your my my PhD research is because it's in a field of media education and and.
Michael Schlauch: I think the interesting thing about electronic literature or these kinds of digital works is that they portray the mediated ness of.
Michael Schlauch: interpersonal connections so normally when we interact with each other in social networks and social media and these kinds of things get invisible to get used to this, I wasn't and norms and and we forget or humans and we forget, and how these are mediated and and how how.
Michael Schlauch: Is the platform how the platform is actually and conditioning and our interpersonal connections, so what is interesting, I think, is that the children already can interact with these kinds of works in order to see how is it to talk to a computer and not.
Michael Schlauch: presume that the computer or and be aware of of the.
Michael Schlauch: Of the issues that arise so computers don't understand anything so.
Michael Schlauch: don't understand everything or if you go to see the other.
Michael Schlauch: interpreters they don't understand everything and and so.
Michael Schlauch: Making these kinds of.
Michael Schlauch: Issues more visible, I think, is one step is to to.
Michael Schlauch: Look, to promote in the personal connections and because right now, our interpersonal connections are always mediated somehow by it by digital media and.
Michael Schlauch: reflecting on it and being able to reflect upon it is very important to be more and more important and I thought this is a very important area to work on.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Thank you, I I.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: totally agree, I think that in this Tony literature can really.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Help a critical thing you knows like thinking how the interfaces they're wise they're.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Thinking of water and green is like I think data.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: social media tends to lead to think, let us think that there is no interface there that that's the real life and women it's real life, but there is an interface there but they will call it.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: interface let's say you don't feel that there is an interface there why, at least in in some electronically to military works that the interface is there, and you have to cope with it, it reminds you dash mean the recent mediation so mediated things yeah I think.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: That you're perfectly right that could be very an important aspect to to to to develop more and schools and not just and the Academy, just to research, this but to practically experiment this.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: With audience in general, but in maybe in schools and particular.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Other questions from from from the audience I don't know, maybe you want to ask something each other okay Jason yes please without writing just.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: yeah.
Jason Boyd: Thank you, I wanted to I was really interested by both these papers that I have.
Jason Boyd: You know more than one question if if there's time but for me.
Jason Boyd: The the question of literacy is very interesting to me because I teach electron literature at the at the at the university level, but.
Jason Boyd: You know i'm not sure if you have experience of teaching this to K 12, but I find their literacy when it comes to email it to be completely.
Jason Boyd: Non existent it's like you know you know you can you can you can expect them to read you know.
Jason Boyd: You know, you can expect that they know how to read, but when it comes to a lot of electronic literature it's really astonishing.
Jason Boyd: You know they might know how to use like a ps4 controller, but you know, give them a work of interactive fiction or or anything like that and they're completely stymied and i'm.
Jason Boyd: wondering, one thing I was when I was looking at your paper, I was wondering, because this is, you know my solution is that I actually get them to become.
Jason Boyd: Procedural authors themselves, I actually get them to create using platforms, because I find that's really the only way.
Jason Boyd: to really get over that literacy problem is to make is to basically expose them to what it's like to create using those platforms and.
Jason Boyd: And by doing so, they gain, I think, a better understanding of what's involved in these works, and do you think that would work also with the K 12 K 12 level basically assignments that got them to actually create.
Jason Boyd: works of 11 broadly broadly construed.
Jason Boyd: and
Michael Schlauch: yeah I think it's.
Michael Schlauch: Certainly the way forward.
Michael Schlauch: One issue I think in the digital literacy is is that we have not yet developed the right terminology so so.
Michael Schlauch: works of this was your works are either interacted with or played with but we assume that people are naturally inclined to interact and play.
Michael Schlauch: And they don't have to know anything to interact Okay, but to read something you have to know something so so there's the literacy issue is disappearing from from the horizon, and then we see actually okay.
Michael Schlauch: And in order to enjoy electronic literature, we have to have some kind of literacy here and there has to be some kind of understanding.
Michael Schlauch: And we have to promote these kinds of understanding in school already in the earlier classes earlier also also primary school also before and maybe and.
Michael Schlauch: He yeah the there many base of getting children to program the whole work of similar patterns and construction ISM it revolves around this and.
Michael Schlauch: Never also problems with this, because.
Michael Schlauch: Children are not able to do naturally program so so that.
Michael Schlauch: The yen there's not yet a pedagogy for having them do these kinds of things.
Michael Schlauch: Within school and rest and finding the right places within school to do these things, because in school, we start with informatics maybe after primary school and and.
Michael Schlauch: Before this this it's only media education or.
Michael Schlauch: He safety education so so more of like a protectionist stance so be aware and and what.
Michael Schlauch: Children are told what they don't have to do in the Internet, but the creative aspect is missing, and so I think yeah I agree very much that the crazy creative aspect is the main way forward to to tackle these kinds of issues.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: yeah absolutely dinner, if you have read the chart.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Like quoting inanimate hell is a lovely lovely.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Open access experimenters sources from 44444 professors and colleagues are have one colleague of mine, and unfortunately she is moderating right now, on the other, panel that would have loved to be here.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Because actually the audit or domain and she she she she she teaches teacher to teach electronic literature to.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: In schools so she well she she used the electronic literature to teach us the languages and so now i'm not a language that's caitlyn so it's bigger than that but briefly so she would have been very interested in that, and of course in any material is Swiss.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: A perfect example yeah but i'm afraid after.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: It does move to to being proprietary yes that's that's true and well, they did an amazing work and, of course, somehow, but this is another aspect about electronic literature, when we sometimes this gas, but just as an really.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Focus down to to watch that also is very tiny little tuning normally share for free all the works, but how they are supposed to leave, I mean many of them are scholars or predictions that already have some other kind of job, but they cannot leave on that so.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: This is also.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: A tricky tricky point, but there are four more coming from God my glasses, this is horrible but anyway.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: yeah I did talk a lot about cost of production and do need to recuperate that I was exactly thinking on that.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: And okay me yeah, of course, you know.
Amy Spencer: Okay, I was just thinking it was interesting how that works.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: yeah and.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: it's amazing, but he has an I totally agree with you this year I also.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: tried to to to do the same with my students but it's totally different because I don't teach literature I teach digital culture at the Department of design, so I was trying to work with designers.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: and actually they come up with the brilliant design solutions, but I do want to understand this literary is that in literally in in our Chinese literature, I was a little bit woman, they are nerds they are very capable to do things but.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: The literary aspect I was like this is lacking here and even when they were like analyzing.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: worked.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: With the tricky thing I started, one of the lecture of that with Alice Alice on clifford's, no, no, she know that the work to sweet old etc, which is a little bit tricky if you don't know what to do, and in fact they were like kind of.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: nerves they did they were able to to generate tax and everything but and this tricky tax, they were kind of oh ma supposed to work here, so this is also quite interesting to me ways that I don't want to.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: put pressure on governments, yes, so I didn't know that there is any other comments or questions.
Leah Henrickson: Oh yes please, please, please I don't know if you thought i'll turn my camera on sorry i've been eating lunch, as this panels and going on and i'm really glad I was drinking it was trying.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Trying.
Leah Henrickson: I mean, I was eating spaghetti, so it is the least appealing thing to watch someone eat so for everyone's sake.
Leah Henrickson: But this has been a fantastic panel and a part of me is really glad actually that it's just the two of you, because I think we've we've pulled out such a rich conversation here and i'm really.
Leah Henrickson: pleased with that and I think this is i'm going to be the obnoxious person who's like this is more of a comment than a question, but I think.
Leah Henrickson: I really wanted to bounce off what Jason said about this idea of critical making I also teach email it to undergraduates.
Leah Henrickson: In a digital media program so i'm in a media studies program and these students have next to no understanding of what is going on behind the scenes, or even superficially and to get them to make.
Leah Henrickson: And to get them to look at the code and really play with it themselves and get them to understand how it works is fantastic and the comment I wanted to make was just that both of you.
Leah Henrickson: in different ways, and definitely interpersonal skills work that's being presented in the panel and at the same time.
Leah Henrickson: What I really like about this work is that it's it's welcoming the reader or the person who's experiencing into the conversation.
Leah Henrickson: And I think this is what really frustrates me with a lot of Isla conversations and where he let as a field has really failed.
Leah Henrickson: And it needs to do better, is it so focused on the person making the artifact it's so focused on the authorial intention, and I know amy you and I, a long time ago and had this conversation.
Leah Henrickson: Where I think that's a load of garbage and I I do read her response studies as my area and i'm more interested in what the reader has to say I kind of don't care, but what the author says, and I think when we're talking about.
Leah Henrickson: Our students don't have literacy well actually maybe maybe the fault is partially with the person writing the thing if you're not making yourself understood.
Leah Henrickson: You have a responsibility as a writer as a producer to to meet your audience at least somewhere in the middle doesn't even have to be halfway but.
Leah Henrickson: A lot of what I find is is I struggle with it because i'm like this isn't for me this is some sort of.
Leah Henrickson: Self indulgent exercise where you're trying to work out your thoughts and that's fantastic but it's actually not for me at all, and I think.
Leah Henrickson: Both of you, I just think I just like to hear you speak a little bit more about.
Leah Henrickson: How readers are involved and we talked about literacy amy obviously MBM literature is a really embodied experience, I would just i'm interested to see what amplified publishing is going to do, because they have.
Leah Henrickson: So much expertise there in that area, how they're going to bring that expertise into this project Mihail i'm really interested in seeing how we can further.
Leah Henrickson: kind of reader response exercises in educational context so kind of a comment but more of a please tell me more because I would love to keep learning from you.
Leah Henrickson: And Jason as well, if you want to chime in by all means.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Please, yes, and just please just.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: open your microphone and.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Get in because this means that a few of us, and at least I don't have to read, because I.
haven't.
Amy Spencer: formulated my thoughts on this yet, but I totally agree with you.
Amy Spencer: That.
Amy Spencer: The kind of self indulgent nature of some works definitely is off putting and that's kind of what a lot of my work is sort of reacting against and.
Amy Spencer: yeah I don't know whether it's to do with sort of the intention of the author or the platforms that people are using or.
Amy Spencer: You know what it is, but a lot of the works that i'm particularly interested in all those more sort of embodied immersive works, but whether the reader or the you know the person experiencing, it has much more active role and that's definitely something that.
Amy Spencer: The amplified publishing project is really.
Amy Spencer: it's quite.
Amy Spencer: what's the word it's the word isn't quite commercial but it's you know thinking about sort of the publishing industry so it's quite industry focused and it's.
Amy Spencer: yeah I don't think there would be much room for works that were to sort of self indulgent and we're kind of clearly focused on you know finding a market it's about sort of exploring.
Amy Spencer: Your markets and ways of commercially publish anything so, for example, the writer who's thinking about audio storytelling and using.
Amy Spencer: kind of voices systems like alexa to to share children's stories that you know is very much focused on the audience very much focused on who's going to buy that what's that going to be like you know all those kind of questions is is what we're thinking about.
Amy Spencer: yeah so how did you directly market something, how do you find audiences, is that it sounds.
Amy Spencer: kind of overly commercial, but I think that's that's just the bit of elite that needs exploring the hard to find audiences and readers and be quiet and upfront about that as an intention.
Leah Henrickson: I think you're also touching on like.
Leah Henrickson: conversations that are ongoing in the publishing.
Leah Henrickson: world as well, like it's great to have these these works, but how are you going to make money off of them.
Amy Spencer: yeah yeah definitely so a lot of the projects that i've been involved with we've been working directly with.
Leah Henrickson: Publishers and.
Amy Spencer: And the tendency for publishers to see it as a sort of marketing things so.
Amy Spencer: there's a printed book and then there might be an APP or something you know something that accompanies the work but it not being the main the main work so.
Amy Spencer: I don't know the answers to any of the questions that were raising around that, because otherwise I would maybe be doing it and I don't think anyone knows the answers and it kind of goes through different phases, where.
Amy Spencer: Publishers are very interested in technology and an experiment, a bit, and then you know times when it isn't happening as much and it's.
Amy Spencer: hard to read what the trends are sometimes yeah that.
Amy Spencer: part of what we're focusing on.
Jason Boyd: Is is definitely that.
Amy Spencer: commercial aspect.
Jason Boyd: I would just you know, maybe add that you know I think the problem around this kind of literacy and you know.
Jason Boyd: Being able to navigate these types of works, one of the major problems just the pace of technology right, you know it's like.
You know.
Jason Boyd: You might have grown up playing interactive fiction, you know how to play interactive fiction, you know what you know you know that's that you give that to someone.
Jason Boyd: who's never played interactive fiction and they're completely like sort of you know just baffled right and so.
Jason Boyd: The dilemma, I always have is you know, especially want to teach historical works to be let you know they're you're obviously dealing with types of you know interaction that.
Jason Boyd: You know, have become obsolete, and so you can't expect you know students at 20 years old, to you know know these technology so it's a kind of an interesting dilemma, and I always.
Jason Boyd: At the beginning of my course I always use is is about a nose great article that, basically, you know essentially says look.
Jason Boyd: You know, if we want Isla to grow, we have to develop a literacy specific to that right because it's so easy just to dismiss this stuff is sort of you know crass and juvenile and.
Jason Boyd: You know and and interesting but that says more about us as readers and it says anything about the work itself so.
Jason Boyd: there's I don't think there's an easy solution to that, but you know I think that's always a kind of constant constant problem right.
Jason Boyd: And you know I find this a promise like you know I can't assign works that you know i'm terrible with do video game modern video game controllers, you know I can't use those things you know so it's it's a it's a real problem.
Amy Spencer: In your talk mccallum you mentioned digital born for audiences and I thought that was particularly interesting.
Amy Spencer: That you were I jotted it down, but I yeah you're thinking about technologies that weren't being used in schools, yet and and digital born and I wondered if you had any more thoughts around what those audiences might be in the work that you've done because that might help.
Amy Spencer: Thinking around this particular I also teach undergraduates and this kind of work and and it's always a problem, knowing what yeah, what do you think they are no additional for something up.
Michael Schlauch: yeah, I think, and we can look at these audiences from different perspectives and if I look at expressive performances, I always look at this theme of of China Jennifer Marie.
Michael Schlauch: And, and looking at digital burke's being able to be participating prasugrel spatial and then inside club ED and and I think this is a key point, because.
Michael Schlauch: legacy books or paper based media can be maybe some of them some of these performances, they have maybe and but not all four of them.
Michael Schlauch: So this is maybe the difference, or this is, this is a way to describe the main difference between order media and digital bond kind of media that the test or are able to.
Michael Schlauch: To use these kinds of performances and then these forums, is also provide some kind of difficulties and and the last comment actually made me think about paper I cited in my paper.
Michael Schlauch: By cognitive reading researchers undermined and understand funded bail why don't we read him hypertext novels and this paper is actually quite interesting to read and and I think it's very.
Michael Schlauch: Important to take it seriously, but I don't agree with what they say what they say they're the main departure point is that hypertext literature, has failed because we already talked about some of the reasons, because the early hypertext literature was.
Michael Schlauch: Experimental it was maybe safe in those and it was confusing and and if you give a kid today.
Michael Schlauch: To child, one of the early forms of electronic digital maybe they have difficulties with it.
Michael Schlauch: So, but, but their main a conclusion was then to to say Okay, and we are not cognitively adapt to cope with these kinds of works, because we are inclined to have.
Michael Schlauch: Doing he did this kind of higher hierarchical relationship between fixed author and pastors reader and I don't agree with that this claim either, so I think here there's much work to do and to disentangle, how can.
Michael Schlauch: Be, how can we produce works desert of herbs that are readable that are understandable, also with maybe limited.
Michael Schlauch: For for readers that are beginning for for readers that don't have all this literacy, even if we have yet to define what we mean by that and and, and this is this big challenge, I think, to do use all these performances in a way that is cognitively also.
Michael Schlauch: Not overwhelming yeah.
Leah Henrickson: I just want to step seven and say I love that article.
Leah Henrickson: The guy who gave me my PhD he's the one who evaluated my PhD so i'm really familiar with that work and I, I agree with him in a lot of ways, and we have, I think you brought you brought up a lot of really good points.
Leah Henrickson: That, I agree with as well, so if you want to write a response to that article I will read it.
Leah Henrickson: But I just want to say thank you so much for a great discussion, I have to have a meeting and but, if anyone.
Leah Henrickson: Has any work they want to send my way, by all means, like keep me in this conversation, please i'm really interested in what you have to say, so thank you so much i'm going to hand out that great.
Amy Spencer: nice to see you again thank.
Leah Henrickson: You inside.
Michael Schlauch: My box.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: On on dash I would.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: I would argue that married or Diana would say data hypertext is readable when his career and it locks of clearances than it's difficult to read I wouldn't.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: I would extend this to to to too many others electronic literary texts mean if there is clearance Dan the reader is stuck there wants to know more, if there is no coherence, maybe your she has lost so is less interested in that I don't know that's my.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: personal opinion was still have a few minutes if there is any other.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Questions or thing dash you to would like to discuss on also and now jazz honoring Jennifer David.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Just.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Just to name a few of them that they can see on the screen the.
Jason Boyd: I could ask a question of amy, this is just a kind of informational question i'm just really interested how you go about and what kinds of.
Jason Boyd: Creators you end up working with and and how that happens, like juju juju five people have already worked in this space or or.
Jason Boyd: Did they approach you or how familiar, are they with using the technology is to completely new to them i'm just very curious about how those kinds of partnerships happen.
Amy Spencer: yeah so they work in different ways, so when I was part of the ambient literature project we approached.
Amy Spencer: Three writers, who are working in quite different ways in the field so capable injure long history in Detroit and.
Amy Spencer: Then can speak man who had a really interesting.
Amy Spencer: audio storytelling audio walk background.
Amy Spencer: And then travel writer James athlete travel writer so approaching people directly you had you know, an understanding of technology, but also writers, so an interesting crossover and then for the slide publishing project, we had an open call.
Amy Spencer: To find people to work with to find research fellows and research partners, we had a quite it's quite tightly defined program because it's part of a wider Program.
Amy Spencer: That explores different themes over a three four year project so that was a much more open process and people applied and we.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: knew talk to them about their ideas so.
Amy Spencer: there's lots of different ways of doing it and i've kind of worked in different.
Amy Spencer: different forms, both seem to work well, I think it's I I like the the openness of asking people to submit openly.
Amy Spencer: UN done with really interesting people that you might not have thought of working with.
Amy Spencer: yeah that.
Jason Boyd: Were there any qualifications in the overlay today, did you specify that they had to have a certain.
Amy Spencer: That one was quite open.
Amy Spencer: We they have to be within a particular geographic region of the case and have to be from Bristol bath in the southwest because part of the aim of the project was to.
Amy Spencer: sort of develop the region as a hub for creative technology so they had to be from a particular place they had to the main thing we asked was for them to have a research question but question that they wanted to explore.
Amy Spencer: And then we kind of went through an interview recruitment evaluation process where we we did draw on you know what their background was and what they were interested in doing it was partly.
Amy Spencer: Research fellows but also industry partners so as part of that process, we were looking for.
Amy Spencer: People working from from industry to work with as well, so it's quite broad we've ended up with a really interesting bunch of people and they go through this year long process together, where they.
Amy Spencer: Think about their research questions they might develop work, am I build something you know who my make something and, at the end, they can apply for prototyping money to develop something that they might have.
Amy Spencer: yeah it's a fantastic project fighting.
Amy Spencer: Greek you're supporting people with resources to develop.
Amy Spencer: interesting work and then making connections so we've got.
Amy Spencer: Industry sort of these major industry partners as part of the project we've got epic games.
Amy Spencer: The BBC BT, which is a telecommunications company so we've got lots of.
Amy Spencer: sort of interesting minds that we can draw on and tap on and the people that were working with can engage with those those bigger partners, which I think is quite valuable.
Amy Spencer: So yeah we can connect them with they can they can talk about things they want to do.
Amy Spencer: yeah so fun fun project but yeah, thank you for asking more about that.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Okay Thank you so much, and we still have a couple of minutes boss, I know dry and yet your question, it has been a very interesting conversations and discussion.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: I love it, I mean i'm sorry for the other speakers that couldn't attend the conference or private thing is fine gosh I would say, like like Leo I prefer like this.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: not like this we had time to discuss them to to.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Have a kind of a seminarian way to to do as bad, although.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Many speakers and then it may be a couple of questions and not getting too much into it, I I actually prefer this way.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: There know if there is no questions.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Was had the pathways they are opening up from the publishing industry for returning us out well yes.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: yeah.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: and be ready to tammy.
Amy Spencer: is a big question for the end well the pathways for the synergy for electronic literature.
Amy Spencer: Is i'm trying to think and.
Amy Spencer: It shifts and changes so often so sometimes there are.
Amy Spencer: more opportunities than others so for a while, you know all publishers wanted lots of Apps for all different things you every book has to have an APP and then it kind of shifted in a different way, so there are opportunities for innovation.
Amy Spencer: But often think in the publishing industry there's often not a lot of money to sort of try new things, because you know.
Amy Spencer: it's a kind of old industry based on selling print books, a lot of time, so.
Amy Spencer: it's.
Amy Spencer: It kind of needs to make commercial sense for people to innovate and the sort of inclination to do that kind of shifts and changes depending on you know economic climates and.
Amy Spencer: All kinds of things and trends and stuff so pathway sometimes open up and then they close again the ebb and flow again that's my experience over the last years of being involved in that.
Amy Spencer: there's lots of interesting I think innovation in in other industries, so a lot of the work that I research this kind of crossover with people working in theater and kind of immersive theater and not necessarily electronic literature, but really interesting use of technology.
Amy Spencer: In a creative way so thinking about vr and.
Amy Spencer: ar and sort of immersive by normal sound and all those kinds of things there's lots of seems to be a lot of innovation in that area it's kind of in a tangent but um.
David Clark: yeah.
David Clark: carry on with it i've always been kind of curious about how the tablet form develops and how they're being there was a separate kind of technological development that took you towards the.
David Clark: You know, really kind of inflexible digital platform that a lot of print books were delivered on and it seemed like we had the opportunity with mobile.
David Clark: Technologies to have something that was you know much more flexible, but nothing was really built into the ones that were really proprietorial for delivering books that allowed for interactive literature.
David Clark: And seems like we're doing a large kind of work around by trying to get other kinds of technologies into people who are really centered on on books, whereas the the technology that the book industry developed is so inflexible.
David Clark: I just wonder if you guys are doing any any work around that particular kind of hardware problem.
Amy Spencer: And i'm not necessarily, but I do.
Amy Spencer: recognize it to be things that you know people like print books and really committed to that and then trying to push aim do something interactive it in different ways, might be that the those particular audiences aren't receptive.
Amy Spencer: And they might be more overlap with people who are interested in games than people who are interested in books at times.
Amy Spencer: I haven't thought too much about hardware in my research.
Amy Spencer: yeah jason's put in the chat and.
David Clark: yeah so that Jason that was.
Amy Spencer: yeah that could be a good resource resource to play in the direction of I don't know if Michael has any other thoughts.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Okay, now, I have to be the moderator just one minute.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: So I have to be the bad girl David was so nice to see you, by the way we haven't seen for for for quite long very happy to see you.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: thanks again.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: And Well now, there are few minutes of break boss dinner, I have another panel and my own tanner to to moderate now in that an ass few minutes on women elite.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: Gender admits, if you are interested in, otherwise the program is very, very intense and offers lots of interesting panels as well.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: great to see you thanks for sharing your ideas with us, and thank you all well so enjoy the conference and absolutely the same touch, because we are all interested more or less.
GIOVANNA Di ROSARIO: than this, with different angles, with different points of view but same on our Italy to thank you.
Jason Boyd: Thank you, thank you.
Amy Spencer: Thank you, thank you.
Amy Spencer: Take care bye.